# indian-music-notation
Musical notations for Indian classical music

It is currently following the tunes at

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8RFGshlNBLbD4ofo_b9prA

All credit goes to "krishnabhakta" for making these wonderful videos.

How to use the notes:

* When multiple notes are pressed at the same, "slash" ("/") separates the
simultaneous notes from each other, e.g. S/P means Sa and Pa pressed at the same
time

* There are three saptaks: Mandra, Madhya and Taar. The notes use "'" single
quote either before or after the actual note indicating its placement, i.e.
whether it is Mandra, Madhya or Taar. E.g. 'S would mean Sa in Mandra saptak, S
would mean Sa in Madhya sapta, and S' would mean Sa in Taar saptak.

* The notes for a line are normally placed above the line that contains the
lyrics for the line.

* The notes are normally put above vowels, however there can be exceptions to
this, e.g. the common one "s(h)" in Krishna's name.

* There can be more than note played for a vowel. However, vowels are not
multiplied in the current notes when a vowel is pronounced a couple of times. It
is up to the reader's understanding about the tune. This may be improved later.

* There can be multiple variations for a part of a tune. These variations are
indicated with v2, v3, etc. Variations normally slightly differ, but the base is
mostly the same. Variations can mean more embellishment, simplification by
leaving a few keys out, changing a couple of keys, or even the same sequence,
but with slightly different distribution over the vowels.

* The tune normally builds up the pace, goes to double time and then at the end,
it comes back to "Part 1", the slow part. Then, it finishes with a closing chord
(normally two notes).

* There can be transient chords (i.e. keys) between subsequent parts. If the
next part does not start where the previous ends, there is normally a way to
smootly change from the previous to the next. This is indicated with "=>" after
each part. E.g. "=> P/S'" would mean that the previous part ends with Pa, and
the next part starts with Taar saptak Sa, so a smooth transition between the two
part would mean pressing down both Madhya saptak Pa and Taar saptak Sa.
